---
title:  "Instructions"
subtitle: "Read and get started!"
author: "Zense"
avatar: "img/logo/zense_logo_cropped.png"
image: "img/logo/git_black1.png"
date:   2021-01-13 00:00:00
---

Hello, and welcome to this website!  
Through this activity-based tutorial, you'll learn how to:  
* ```Fork``` a repository
* ```Clone``` a repository
* Install ```ruby```, ```jekyll``` and host the project locally
* Add your files (in the right format for the purposes of the project), including but not limited to:
    * Name, and other personal details
    * Profile image
    * Links
* ```Commit```, and ```Push``` your changes to the repository
* Confirming the pull request


## Forking the repository  
Background information about forking: [Github Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/getting-started-with-github/fork-a-repo)  

A fork is a _copy_ of a repository.    

Forking a repository allows you to freely experiment with changes without affecting the original project. This is something you'd want to do on a regular basis, to make sure that your changes work and do not affect any other part of the project in an adverse manner.  
These are the steps to follow:  
* Navigate to the [repo](https://github.com/zense/JuniorsGitTutorial), and click on the ``` fork ``` button.
* This should create a repo with the name of the form ```YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY``` 

## Cloning the forked repository    
Background information about cloning: [Github Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository)  

When you clone a repository, you *copy* the repository from GitHub to your local machine.  
These are the steps to follow:  
* Open your terminal window, and navigate to a newly created folder. An example implementation is:
    * ```mkdir MyIntro```
    * ```cd MyIntro```
* Then, go to your forked repository, click on the green code button and copy the link provided. 
* Then, go to your terminal and paste it. It could be of the form, ``` git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/YOUR-REPOSITORY```  

## Installing the dependencies required to run the project  
While this _is_ optional to an extent, we recommend doing this process as you could learn about a lot of things along the way should something go wrong during the installation process. More importantly, you can see if the changes you made are reflected correctly in the project.  
### Installing ruby 
* Open your terminal and go to your home directory. The file path should be of the form ``` /home/YOUR-COMPUTER-NAME ```  
* Then, type ```sudo apt-get update ```. You might be asked to enter your password.
* Then type ```sudo apt-get install git-core curl zlib1g-dev build-essential libssl-dev libreadline-dev libyaml-dev libsqlite3-dev sqlite3 libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev python-software-properties libffi-dev ```
* Then, type ```git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv ```. Do you see the git clone here? Bonus points for checking out the repo! But, please do it after the activity.
* Then, type ```echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc ```
* Then, type ```echo 'eval "$(rbenv init -)"' >> ~/.bashrc```
* Then, type ```exec $SHELL ```
* Then, type ```git clone https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build.git ~/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build```. This could take a lot of time; you can prepare your material until then. 
* Then, type ```echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc ```
* Then, type ```exec $SHELL ```
* Then, type ```rbenv install 2.7.1 ```
* Then, type ```rbenv global 2.7.1 ```
* To check the version of ruby installed, type ```ruby -v ```. It should be something along the lines of *2.7.1*

### Installing bundler
* Type ```gem install bundler ```
* Then, type ```rbenv rehash ```

### Installing jekyll
* Type ``` gem install bundler jekyll ```  
  
### Hosting the project locally
Whew! That was a lot of work.  
Let's check the project out and see if it works.  
For this, type  ``` bundle exec jekyll serve ```. You should find the site on ```http://127.0.0.1:4000/JuniorsGitTutorial/```

### Adding your files and information  
Now for the fun part!  
You'll need the following files ready:
* A background picture for your post. Call it ```YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER-BACKGROUND.jpg```
* A profile picture for your post. Call it ```YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER-PROFILE.jpg```
  
Now, open your code editor of choice, and add the two images as follows:
* Add ```YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER-PROFILE.jpg``` into ```img/authors``` folder.
* Add ```YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER-BACKGROUND.jpg``` into ```img``` folder.  
 
For the post itself, we'll use the follwing format:
*Filename*: ```2021-01-01-<YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER>.markdown``` 
```
---
title:  "YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER"
subtitle: "About Me"
author: "YOUR-NAME"
avatar: "img/authors/YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER-PROFILE.png"
image: "img/YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER-BACKGROUND.jpg"
date:   2021-01-01 12:12:12
---

## About me 
...

## Socials
[Caption](link)
...
``` 

Feel free to add your creative touch to the segments, but make sure to only modify the content below the two ```---``` placeholders. Create this file and add it to the ```_posts``` folder.  

Now, run the project again locally, and see if your new post is reflected.

### Committing and Pushing your changes  
First, let's add the files. This is done by performing the following commands:  
* ```git add img/authors/YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER-PROFILE.png```
* ```git add img/YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER-BACKGROUND.png```
* ```git add _posts/2021-01-01-<YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER>.markdown```  

Now, type ``` git status ```. It should be all green.  

Now, we commit our files by typing ``` git commit -m "Added files for YOUR-ROLL-NUMBER" ```.
Finally, we push the changes by typing ``` git push -u origin master ```. 

### Confirming the pull request
Go back to your created repo on github and click on the ``` Compare and Pull request ```. Add relevant additional information, and you're done! 

### Celebration Time
We hope that everything went smmoothly. If not, do not hesitate to contact us :)  
You can see the fruits of your hardwork [here](https://zense.co.in/JuniorsGitTutorial/)




